# Ubuntu 21.10 - first startup configs

This document contains additional steps for a first startup configuration of Ubuntu on
an HP ENVY x360 13-ay1336no 13" 2-in-1 machine.

Works out-of-the-box:

- Camera shutter.
- Volume keys.
- Microphone toggle key.
- 3-levels keyboard backlight control key.
- Music control keys.

## Issues

### Wifi adapter issue

The wifi adapter did not work out of the box in my case. Luckily, I always have my old
reliable TP-Link wifi dongle at hand, so the first thing I did was plug it in and run
a normal update routine.

```bash
sudo apt update
sudo apt upgrade
```

My upgrade seemed to stall, showing the following:

```text
snapd.vailure.service is a disabled or a static unit, not starting it.
snapd.snap-repair.service is a disabled or a static unit, not starting it.
```

After waiting patiently for half an hour, I stopped the process with `Ctrl+C` and ran
[this workaround](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/snapd/+bug/1776622/comments/5):

```bash
sudo dpkg -r snapd gnome-software-plugin-snap
sudo apt update
sudo apt upgrade
sudo apt autoclean
sudo apt autoremove
sudo reboot
```

Then, the wifi adapter was properly recognized and started working correctly!

### Missing firmwares

While fixing the wifi adapter issue I noticed that a number of firmwares were missing. Specifically:

```text
...
```

Fix from [this post](https://askubuntu.com/a/1124256).

### Brightness keys

While they worked during the live Ubuntu test from the bootable USB installer, once the
system rebooted after installing the OS the brightness keys stopped working. Interestingly,
the brightness slide control in Ubuntu Settings > Display worked as intended.

...

### Settings key

...

### Fingerprint reader

The fingerprint reader did not work out of the box.

## Additional steps

Given that the Ubuntu installer was not able to connect to the internet, a number of programs waere
missing even after fixing the wifi adapter issue.

```bash
sudo apt install firefox
```
